---
layout: post
title: Lessons Learned at the Women in CS @ TUM Student Club 
date: 2024-08-15 12:00:00
description: joining the Women in CS @ TUM Student Club was like finding a guiding light in a vast, complex landscape. It taught me the value of community and the strength that comes from diverse voices working together
tags: personal
categories: personal
thumbnail: assets/img/wics/IFF.png
images:
  compare: true
  slider: true
featured: false
---
<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/wics/school.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/wics/school_1.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/wics/defense.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

### Introduction
Returning to Munich from Greece, I was eager to dive back into university life, explore volunteering opportunities, and meet new people. My search for a fitting student team led me to the [Women in Computer Science (WiCS)](https://womenincstum.github.io/) club. What began as a chance to contribute soon turned into a profound learning experience about inclusivity, empathy, and personal growth.

### Joining the Team
Upon discovering the WiCS team and confirming that males were welcome, I decided to attend their first recruiting event. Initially, I felt out of place as one of the first and only male M.Sc. students present. However, as the day progressed, I began to see how my experience mirrored the challenges faced by many women in tech, who often find themselves as the minority in their classes and professional environments.

### The Coffee Meetup
My integration into the team became more seamless at the Coffee Meetup. My initial worries about being the only male student faded as I engaged in discussions about the team's operations and the unique challenges faced by women in Computer Science. The warmth and support from my peers helped me feel at ease and highlighted the importance of understanding their experiences.

### Lessons on the Pay Gap
In line with our commitment to fostering dialogue on gender equality, our team organized a special event focusing on the gender pay gap. We invited experts who shared valuable insights into how the pay gap extends beyond salaries. They highlighted that women not only earn less but also carry a greater burden of domestic responsibilities, managing more tasks at home while balancing professional commitments. This deeper understanding has enhanced our appreciation for the need for greater equity in both professional and personal spheres.

### The PhD Event
We also hosted a PhD event where female students shared their doctoral journeys. Hearing their stories was incredibly inspiring. It was especially touching to learn that the speakers benefited from the event by connecting with one another and reflecting on their experiences. Their reflections provided meaningful insights and encouragement not only for the audience but also for the speakers themselves. This mutual benefit underscored the power of sharing and support within our community.

### The Christmas Party
The Christmas party was a highlight of my time with WiCS. The event featured delicious food, a festive atmosphere, and thoughtful presents. One of the most emotional moments occurred during a session where we revisited our resolutions from the previous year. A particularly personal story stood out: one of the members shared that, even though she wasn’t actively participating in the club at the time, she felt a deep sense of security and support from our group. She conveyed that knowing our student club existed as a safe space provided her with comfort, even when she was not physically present. This heartfelt moment highlighted the profound impact of having such a supportive community and the reassurance it offers, regardless of physical presence.

### The School Girls Program
Another fulfilling experience was organizing the [School Girls Program](https://www.canva.com/design/DAGACwHPyrQ/4DV0gswLLbXMbblPI0UeFw/view?utm_content=DAGACwHPyrQ&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link&utm_source=editor), where we invited girls aged 15 to 18 to our university. We arranged a series of lectures, interactive events about university life, and presentations highlighting several student teams and initiatives. The goal was to inspire and educate these young girls about opportunities in computer science and STEM fields. Seeing their excitement and receiving their positive feedback was incredibly gratifying. The program's impact was clear, and their enthusiasm reinforced the importance of encouraging future generations to explore these fields.

### Conclusion
Reflecting on my journey with the "Women in Computer Science" club, I've come to appreciate the transformative power of stepping out of one's comfort zone. Engaging with this vibrant community has not only broadened my understanding of inclusivity and empathy but also reinforced the importance of supporting and encouraging diverse voices. My experiences—from navigating initial uncertainties to witnessing the profound impact of our initiatives—have shown me that pursuing one's passions, even when they diverge from the norm, can lead to meaningful and rewarding growth. Embrace opportunities to learn, support others, and challenge conventions. It's through these endeavors that we can contribute to creating a more inclusive and equitable world.
